The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Ballad of Blaster Bill, by Nelson S. Bond

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Ballad of Blaster Bill

Author: Nelson S. Bond

Release Date: April 28, 2020 [EBook #61968]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BALLAD OF BLASTER BILL ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      The Ballad of Blaster Bill

                           By Nelson S. Bond

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


      When you're hurtling 'round the Sun
      On the perihelion run
    Through the asteroids from Jupiter to Mars,
      You may chance to see a light
      In the everlasting night,
    An unwinking beacon, sister to the stars.

      Then each member of the crew
      From the lowest wiper to
    The Skipper on the bridge, a moment will
      Drop all work and gravely, mute,
      Raise his arm in full salute
    To the final resting place of Blaster Bill.

      Afterward, if you are not
      Just a nosey rankey-pot,[1]
    And the thing that ticks within you isn't stone,
      You may learn from spacemens' lips
      Tales of ancient days and ships,
    And why Bill the Blaster lies there all alone.


                                  II

      Surly Jonathan McNeer
      Was the Master Engineer
    On the wallowing old freighter, _Dotty Sue_.
      He was gruff, uncouth, unclean,
      And his language was obscene,
    But a better grease-pot never sheared the blue.

      He had nerves of tempered steel,
      And without a squawk or squeal
    He would plot a course to Hades for a thrill;
      But his temper was like fire
      And the man who drew his ire,
    Who tried his patience most, was--Blaster Bill.

      Bill the Blaster was a lazy,
      Good-for-nothing (some said crazy),
    Guy who didn't have a gray cell in his head.
      He had muscle in his shoulders,
      And his forearms were like boulders,
    But his cranium and can were filled with lead.

      Without ever even trying
      He could make McNeer start crying
    Down the wrath of Baal upon his hapless dome.
      He and awkwardness were cousins,
      He broke things by scores and dozens
    Just one look at him and tubes sang, "Ohm, sweet Ohm!"

      On the _Dotty Sue_, his duty
      Was to keep all tutti-frutti
    The rocket-blasts, the motors and the rest
      Of the intricate equipment
      Which insures a speedy shipment
    To the planets that are buttons on Sol's vest.

      But McNeer's deserved objection
      Was--Bill practiced vivisection
    Every time he placed his thumbs (which numbered five)
      On a section of machinery.
      "He'd be better in a beanery!"
    Was McNeer's complaint. "I'll skin the guy alive!"

      "Now, there, Jonathan!" the Skipper
      Used to say, "Don't be a yipper.
    I'm sure Bill does the best he can." But grief
      Etched gray, fretful lines and horrid
      On McNeer's space-weathered forehead.
    "The best is none too good!" complained the Chief.


                                  III

      Two months out of Io City
      Everything was running pretty,
    The asteroids were thirty hours away,
      When McNeer, to whom perfection
      Was a sort of predilection,
    Said, "Bill, we'll take the hypos down today."

      Well, the hypatomic motors
      Are the energy-plus rotors
    That control a spaceship's motion in the void.
      When the ship is once free-wheeling
      'Neath the vast celestial ceiling,
    Then's the time to clean the grit with which they're cloyed.

      So Bill said, "Yup. Okey-dokey!"
      And with movements slow and pokey
    Dismounted Number one and got to work.
      "Do a perfect job, you _globaar_![2]
      Or I'll crown you with a crow-bar!"
    Warned McNeer--and then he vanished with a smirk.

      It was some two hours later
      As, upon his "sweet pertater"
    The Chief Engineer was tootling _Venus Nell_,
      That the Second Mate, half witless,
      Out of breath and frightened spitless,
    Burst in crying, "Chief, we're on our way to hell!"

      "What, already?" drawled McNeer
      But the mate, pale green with fear,
    Bawled, "Go get the hypos working, without fail!
      And go do it on the double,
      'Cause we're in a peck of trouble!
    A rogue asteroid is riding on our tail!"


                                  IV

      Now, in case you don't remember,
      A "rogue asteroid's" a member
    Of the minor planet group that's slipped its cogs.
      Wrenched by gravitational forces,
      It careens about its courses
    In an orbit not computable by logs.

      Tons on tons of granite, metaled,
      By the tug of Jove unsettled,
    Weaving in, about, below its normal belt;
      Is it any wonder why a
      Spaceman fears this mad pariah?
    Dreads the moment when its power may be felt?

      With a single, sharp, explosive
      Word that acted as corrosive
    On the mate's embarrassed eardrums, raced McNeer
      To the engine-room where, peaceful,
      Happy, busy, very grease-full,
    Labored Blaster Bill, with grins from ear to ear.

      "Bill!" McNeer cried, voice all blurry,
      "Get that hypo in a hurry--"
    Then his order strangled as he stared, aghast.
      "What is this?" he faltered weakly,
      "What is this?" And Bill, quite meekly,
    Said, "I thought I'd melt it down for a recast!"

      His imagination racing
      The Chief gazed upon the casing
    Of the hypatomic motor Number Three,
      Now a pool of molten metal
      Bubbling gently in a kettle.
    "Goddlemighty!" yelled McNeer. "This thing can't be!"

      Bill asked, "Why the mad commotion?"
      Then they glimpsed a sudden motion
    And the Skipper's face was in the televise.
      "Got the motors fixed, McNeer?"
      And the Chief said, low and clear,
    "No. Does someone know a prayer amongst you guys?"

      "Why?" the Skipper roared, distrait;
      The Chief let him have it straight.
    "The hypatomic's melted into wax!
      But before that rogue gets near,
      I've a twelve pound hammer here
    To warp across my blaster's parallax!"

      "Wait!" the Captain cried, "Not yet!
      We must cover every bet.
    I'm commander of this freighter while she rolls.
      We must somehow make a turn,
      Shake that damn rogue off our stern.
    Suppose you try the manual controls?"

      McNeer sadly shook his head
      As he saw the rusty red
    Of the long neglected manuals, but yelled,
      "Hop to it, Bill, you dope!
      It's our last and only hope--"
    And then he stopped and gulped, "Well, I'll be helled!"

      With his back arched neck to heel,
      Bill was straining at the wheel;
    The year-old rust was breaking off in flakes.
      McNeer's eyes lit with joy,
      He shouted, "Bill, my boy!
    See, there, lad? She gives! She shakes!"

      And true enough, the screw
      Of the gallant _Dotty Sue_
    Was turning 'neath the blaster's mighty brawn.
      The C. E.'s voice was thunder,
      "We're getting out from under!
    Just hold 'er, Bill; the danger will be gone!"

      A moment, still as death,
      While Bill the Blaster's breath
    Rasped through the rocking room in tortured sobs,
      Then from the bridge rang out
      The Skipper's warning shout,
    "Too late! Abandon ship, Chief! Don your lobs!"

      McNeer said, "Too bad, Bill,
      Just hold 'er there until
    I get the lobs, and then we'll pull our freight."
      With firm, untrembling hands
      He took down from their stands
    Two spacesuits, worn and old and out of date.

      But Bill the Blaster stood
      As motionless as wood;
    His arms like knotted oak in cords of strain.
      He slowly shook his head
      And to the Chief he said,
    "If all break ship, we'll not see Earth again."

      "I know--" began McNeer,
      But Bill roared out, "Stand clear!"
    His arms upon the wheel were like a vise.
      "Break ship and wait outside,
      I'll make this baby ride!
    I'll hold 'er till the devil skates on ice!"

      Then in the visiplate
      Appeared the Second Mate,
    "All out below? Did you break ship, McNeer?"
      McNeer said, "Right away!
      Come on, Bill, don't delay!"
    But Bill the Blaster panted, "Chief, stand clear!"

      "You fool, you're courting death!"
      Bill answered, "Save your breath,"
    And grinned, "You'll need that oxygen outside!"
      And stood like frozen steel
      Beside that bucking wheel,
    McNeer, reluctant, hovered at his side....

      Till Bill cried, "You damn fool!"
      And grabbed a handy tool
    And slashed it 'cross his headpiece like a mace.
      There came a crashing roar,
      McNeer knew nothing more
    Until he woke to find himself in space.


                                   V

      About him, staff and crew
      Of the ill-starred _Dotty Sue_
    Were huddled, bitter, grim, but unafraid.
      A quarter mile away
      The last scene of the fray
    Tween Man and Asteroid was being played.

      Her stern jets flaming white
      Against the endless night
    The bobbing ship was fighting, bolt and nail,
      To curve from underneath
      Those looming tons of death
    That poised above her like a cosmic flail.

      McNeer cried, "No, Bill! No!"
      And then his audio
    Clacked with the Skipper's thin, metallic voice,
      "There's nothing we can do
      But hope he pulls her through.
    He made his choice, McNeer; a hero's choice."

      As they watched tensely, all,
      The spaceship seemed to crawl
    An inch, a foot, a yard, another yard....
      Meanwhile, the massive rock
      Raced blindly toward the shock
    With vast, colossal, cosmic disregard.

      And nearer yet they drew,
      To their strange _rendezvous_
    In space; Fate's balance hovered fine and thin.
      And then, "The Lord be praised!"
      The crew a paean raised;
    McNeer's white lips cracked in a nerveless grin.

      Imponderable mass
      And spaceship seemed to pass
    Each other with a hair 'twixt hull and face;
      But then, as every voice
      Roused in a loud rejoice,
    A single boulder slashed through empty space--

      The spaceship buckled, bent;
      A gaping, white-fanged rent
    Split stern plates, and McNeer's voice cracked with fear.
      "Board ship, all hands!" he cried!
      "Bill's dying there inside!"
    The wan sun watched the killer disappear.

      McNeer was first to kneel
      Beside the shattered wheel
    And Bill's pale, silent figure; gray with grief
      He cried, "He's breathing yet!
      Here, Skipper! Help me get--"
    But Bill said, "No--don't try to lift me, Chief."

      "I look all right on top
      But ... better get ... a mop....
    My underneath part's not so good...." A chill
      Ran through his broken frame,
      But, to the last ditch game,
    "I held 'er to 'er course--" said Blaster Bill.


                                  VI

      So--hurtling 'round the Sun
      On the perihelion run
    Through the asteroids from Jupiter to Mars,
      You may chance to see a light
      In the everlasting night,
    An unwinking beacon, sister to the stars.

      And then, if you are not
      A lousy _rankey-pot_,
    With the instincts of the back end of a horse,
      You'll stand a moment, mute,
      Arm raised in full salute
    To Blaster Bill--who held 'er to 'er course.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 1: _rankey-pot_--Earthlubber; from the Venusian "_renqui-pth_"]

[Footnote 2: _globaar_--shiftless person; Ionian term of reproach]





End of Project Gutenberg's The Ballad of Blaster Bill, by Nelson S. Bond

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BALLAD OF BLASTER BILL ***

***** This file should be named 61968.txt or 61968.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/9/6/61968/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

